Document `--platform` flag for `conda [env]  create` (#14181)
conda/conda: docs/source/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.rst

   You can also use ``conda info --envs``.

.. _specifying-environment-platform:

Specifying a different target platform for an environment
=========================================================

> By default, ``conda`` will create environments targeting the platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, ``conda`` will create environments targeting the platform it's
```

currently running on. You can check which one is yours by running
``conda info`` and checking the ``platform`` entry.

However, in some cases you might want to create an environment for a
different target platform or architecture. To do so, use the
``--platform`` flag available in the ``conda create`` and

> ``conda env create`` commands. The value must be a valid platform.

Reviewer: Do we have a list of valid platforms in the documentation? Would be a nice thing to link to.

Reviewer 2: Looks like our CLI help has them listed. https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/commands/env/create.html#named-arguments

Author: Link added.

For example, a user running macOS on the Apple Silicon platform
might want to create a ``python`` environment for Intel processors
and emulate the executables with Rosetta. The command would be:

.. code::

   conda create --platform osx-64 --name python-x64 python

> Note that you can't specify this flag for existing environments.
> The environment will be annotated with the custom configuration and
> subsequent operations on it will remember the target platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note::

   You can't specify this flag for existing environments.
   The environment will be annotated with the custom configuration and
   subsequent operations on it will remember the target platform.
```

Maybe this would look better in an admonition?

Reviewer 2: I agree with the admonition. I also have a few rewrite suggestions.

```suggestion
.. note::
   You can't specify the ``--platform`` flag for existing environments. 
   When created, the environment will be annotated with the custom configuration and
   subsequent operations on it will remember the target platform.
```
Just to be a bit more clear there.

> This flag also allows specifying a different OS (e.g. create a Linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This flag also allows specifying a different OS (e.g. creating a Linux
```

environment on macOS), but we don't recommend its usage outside

> ``--dry-run`` operations. Common problems include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``--dry-run`` operations. Common problems with mismatched OSes include:
```

I think it sounds better to reiterate the circumstance (mismatched OSes) under which these problems occur.

- The environment cannot be solved because virtual packages are missing.
  You can workaround this issue by exporting the necessary
  ``CONDA_OVERRIDE_****`` environment variables. For example, solving
  for Linux from macOS, you will probably need ``CONDA_OVERRIDE_LINUX=1``
  and ``CONDA_OVERRIDE_GLIBC=2.17``.
- The environment can be solved, but extraction and linking fails due
  filesystem limitations (case insensitive systems, incompatible paths,
  etc). The only workaround here is to use ``--dry-run --json`` to obtain

>   the solution and process the payload into a lockfile that can be shared

Reviewer 2: Do we have docs on lockfiles and how to use them? Might be a useful link here.

Author: Added a new section because I couldn't find one.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for that!

   You can also use ``conda info --envs``.

.. _specifying-environment-platform:

Specifying a different target platform for an environment
=========================================================

By default, ``conda`` will create environments targeting the platform it's
currently running on. You can check which platform you are currently on by running
``conda info`` and checking the ``platform`` entry.

However, in some cases you might want to create an environment for a
different target platform or architecture. To do so, use the
``--platform`` flag available in the ``conda create`` and
``conda env create`` commands. The value must be a valid platform.

For example, a user running macOS on the Apple Silicon platform
might want to create a ``python`` environment for Intel processors
and emulate the executables with Rosetta. The command would be:

.. code::

   conda create --platform osx-64 --name python-x64 python

.. note::

>    You can't specify the ``--platform`` flag for existing environments. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   You can't specify the ``--platform`` flag for existing environments.
```

The environments list that displays should not show the removed
environment.

.. _dry-run-explicit:

Create explicit lockfiles without creating an environment
=========================================================

``@EXPLICIT`` lockfiles allow you to (re)create environments without invoking the solver.

> They consist of a ``@EXPLICIT`` header plus a list of conda package URLs optionally followed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They consist of an ``@EXPLICIT`` header plus a list of conda package URLs, optionally followed
```
I'm not sure how ``@EXPLICIT`` is said, but I think it's either "at explicit" or "explicit", which both start with vowel sounds, so "an" is the correct article here.

by their MD5 or SHA256 hash.

> They can be obtained from existing environments via ``conda list --explicit``, as seen in ...

Reviewer 2: Don't forget to put something here!

Reviewer 3: @jaimergp This seems empty still?

Author: Oops, addressed!

> But what if you only need the lockfile? Would you need create a temporary environment first just

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But what if you only need the lockfile? Would you need create to a temporary environment first just
```
